# 0193 Project Profile On Chemical Etching On Wood

## Page 1

Khadi and Village Industries Commission Mumbai PROJECT PROFILE ON CHEMICAL ETCHING ON WOOD Introduction : Chemical etching is a process involving artistic imagination to use the natural grain patterns on wood/waste wood to advantage. In this prcess, the artist creates various designs on wood, carves it out and using chemical etching brings forth the grain pattern to add beauty to the finished product. Relevant specifications are IS 799:1985- Liquor ammonia (second version), IS 5666:1970-Etch primer. Raw materials required for Chemical Etching on wood are waste wooden planks, chemicals. Process of Manufacture: The manufacturing process involves the following steps are collect the waste pieces of wooden planks available from waste packing, using a hand grinder, clean the surface to expose the grain structure, depending on the pattern of the grain, draw the outline with pencil, using carving tools, carve out the required design, apply liquor ammonia to the surface using a brush, burn the surface on which ammonia was applied using a blow torch, clean the surface with the help of buffing wheel. Market Potential : -This is an etirely decorative item, which has a potential for use in interior decoration of hotels, restaurants, shops, offices and homes. Manufacturing activity is at present confined to certain areas in South India. The product needs to be marketed intensively. Demand could be generated by displaying the product in exhibitions, showrooms, art galleries & through intimate contacts with decorators, designers, architects, painting contractors, furniture designers, hotels, restaurants, industries and offices. The unit cbe set up even in semi-urban areas where artisans working on wood are available. This activity can be done simultaneously alongwith their carpentry work. 1 Name of the Product : CHEMICAL ETCHING ON WOOD 2 Project Cost : a Capital Expenditure Land : Own Workshed in sq.ft Rs. - Equipment : Rs. 40,000.00 1 Wood Carving tool kit, 2 Mechanical vice, 3 Chemical etching kit and preliminary & pre-operative expenses. Total Capital Expenditure Rs. 40,000.00 b Working Capital Rs. 50,000.00 TOTAL PROJECT COST : Rs. 90,000.00 3 Estimated Annual Production Capacity: (Rs. in 000) Sr. No. Particulars Capacity in No./Q. Rate Total Value 1 CHEMICAL ETCHING ON WOOD 2100.00 375.60 TOTAL 2100.00 0.00 375.60 4 Raw Material : Rs. 65,000.00 5 Labels and Packing Material : Rs. 5,000.00 6 Wages ( 1-Skilled &1- Unskilled) : Rs. 144,000.00 7 Salaries Manager-1 R s . : 120,000.00

### Tables

| Chemical etching is a process involving artistic imagination to use the natural grain patterns on wood/waste
wood to advantage. In this prcess, the artist creates various designs on wood, carves it out and using chemical
etching brings forth the grain pattern to add beauty to the finished product. Relevant specifications are IS
799:1985- Liquor ammonia (second version), IS 5666:1970-Etch primer. Raw materials required for Chemical
Etching on wood are waste wooden planks, chemicals. |
|---|
| Process of Manufacture: The manufacturing process involves the following steps are collect the waste pieces of wooden
planks available from waste packing, using a hand grinder, clean the surface to expose the grain structure, depending on
the pattern of the grain, draw the outline with pencil, using carving tools, carve out the required design, apply liquor ammonia
to the surface using a brush, burn the surface on which ammonia was applied using a blow torch, clean the surface with the
help of buffing wheel. Market Potential : -This is an etirely decorative item, which has a potential for use in interior
decoration of hotels, restaurants, shops, offices and homes. Manufacturing activity is at present confined to certain areas in
South India. The product needs to be marketed intensively. Demand could be generated by displaying the product in
exhibitions, showrooms, art galleries & through intimate contacts with decorators, designers, architects, painting contractors,
furniture designers, hotels, restaurants, industries and offices. The unit cbe set up even in semi-urban areas where artisans
working on wood are available. This activity can be done simultaneously alongwith their carpentry work. |

| - |
|---|
| 40,000.00 |

| 1 Wood Carving tool kit, 2 Mechanical vice, 3 Chemical etching kit and preliminary & |
|---|
| pre-operative expenses. |
|  |
|  |

| 40,000.00 |
|---|
| 50,000.00 |
| 90,000.00 |

| Sr.No. | Particulars | Capacity in No./Q. | Rate | Total Value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | CHEMICAL ETCHING ON WOOD | 2100.00 |  | 375.60 |
| TOTAL |  | 2100.00 | 0.00 | 375.60 |

---

## Page 2

PAGE ( 2 ) 8 Administrative Expenses : Rs. 4,000.00 9 Overheads : Rs. 20,000.00 10 Miscellaneous Expenses : Rs. 5,000.00 11 Depreciation : Rs. 4,000.00 . 12 Insurance : Rs. 400.00 13 Interest (As per the PLR) a. C. E. Loan : Rs. 5,200.00 b. W. C. Loan : Rs. 6,500.00 Total Interest Rs. 11,700.00 14 Working Capital Requirement : Fixed Cost Rs. 134,600.00 Variable Cost Rs. 240,500.00 Requirement of WC per Cycle Rs. 62,517.00 15 Cost Analysis Sr. No. Particulars Capacity Utilization(Rs in '000) 100% 60% 70% 80% 1 Fixed Cost 134.60 80.76 94.22 107.68 2 Variable Cost 241.00 144.60 168.70 192.80 3 Cost of Production 375.60 225.36 262.92 276.38 4 Projected Sales 550.00 330.00 385.00 440.00 5 Gross Surplus 174.40 104.64 122.08 139.52 6 Expected Net Surplus 170.00 101.00 118.00 136.00 Note : 1. All figures mentioned above are only indicative. 2. If the investment on Building is replaced by Rental then a. Total Cost of Project will be reduced. b. Profitability will be increased. c. Interest on C. E.will be reduced.

### Tables

| Sr.No. | Particulars | Capacity Utilization(Rs in '000) |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  |  | 100% | 60% | 70% | 80% |
| 1 | Fixed Cost | 134.60 | 80.76 | 94.22 | 107.68 |
| 2 | Variable Cost | 241.00 | 144.60 | 168.70 | 192.80 |
| 3 | Cost of Production | 375.60 | 225.36 | 262.92 | 276.38 |
| 4 | Projected Sales | 550.00 | 330.00 | 385.00 | 440.00 |
| 5 | Gross Surplus | 174.40 | 104.64 | 122.08 | 139.52 |
| 6 | Expected Net Surplus | 170.00 | 101.00 | 118.00 | 136.00 |

---
